1. AS A MANAGER:

Firstly, I would assess the current status of our project and analyze 
what are the tasks that are most important and essential
in completing the projects and prioritizing them step-by-step.

Secondly, since a developer from my team had a personal problem and
wouldn't be able to commit their 100% to the project. I would redistribute
the tasks and assess my team members who would fit better in doing the 
tasks. By doing so, the developer of our team with personal problems would 
have the time to do what they needed for their matters.

Thirdly, I would need to communicate with the R&D Department about our
team's situation a possible delay in our work and the worst-case scenario
we would need to hire to fill the gap of our developer.



2. AS A DEVELOPER:

Firstly, I would need to inform my manager immediately about my personal
crisis and the possibility of me, not 100% fulfilling my job as a 
developer of our team.

Secondly, I would focus on the important parts that needed to accomplish
first to prevent burdening my fellow team members with possible 
further delays and problems that may arise. I would also try and reach out
to my colleagues and manager for support on our projects especially
if I know I won't be able to do it.

Thirdly, I would work closely with my fellow team members and implement
time management techniques to maximize our productivity. Through this,
we can lessen any possible delays and errors and we can efficiently coordinate
the progress of our project.



3. WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN DONE BETTER:

As a Manager, I should've been more proactive with any possible risks
that we may encounter while undertaking the project. And that should have included
having personal emergencies. As a manager, I should've developed risk
mitigation for that type of problem, and been open to that risk when 
undertaking our project.

As a Developer, I shouldn't have let my problem become a hindrance to our project 
and learned how to properly balance my work life and personal life. As a developer,
I should prioritize my well-being at the same time set boundaries that would not 
hinder my productivity in our workplace. I should have learned how to properly manage 
my tasks. By putting these things in mind, I could've finished my deliverables without 
hindering the progress of my team members.